All right it's time to build some routes for our users.
And these really aren't specific to users themselves they're really more around the idea of authentication.
So what I'm going to do inside of handlers is make a new file called off objects.
And remember we said that our handlers are simply functions that we're going to export and put them
inside of our Roths.
So we're just going to be exporting to functions right here.
But first we're going to need our D-B.
And that's going to be requiring dot dot slash models.
You may be wondering what file inside of your end.
Code is really helping me out.
Models slash index.
If you leave off the slash here it's the same thing actually as looking for a slash index.
It's really nice to name your files index that yes would also be going to need.
We are going to need the Jason web token module.
So we're going to bring in Jason Webb token.
And remember Jason Webb token is going to be used to create jobs or Giese on web tokens.
He saw those in a previous screencast.
Those are the tools that we're going to be using to Mark users as logged in.
If there is a token that exists that's going to be created when the user either signs up successfully
or logs in.
So we are going to need two functions right here a function called seinen and a function that will call
Sign-Up you can call this log in and sign up whatever you'd like.
We'll start with sign in and sign up and actually do sign up first because we don't really have any
users that have logged in yet.
Now this is going to be a function that is actually going to be once again another async function and
these functions accept request response and next.
Remember I'm just making a function with parameters.
We're actually going to be using them when we call this function.
So I could call this request response but let's go with what you might have seen before with wreckin
rest.
It's a little bit shorter and it's what you'll see a bit more in industry as with all our async functions.
We're going to try catch
and inside of this statement.
What do we really want to do here.
We first want to create the user once we create the user we then want to create a token.
We call this assigning a token inside of our catch if something goes wrong we actually want to see what
kind of error and if it is a certain error we can respond with username or email already taken.
Otherwise just send back a generic 400 some kind of bad request.
So ideally we'd like to send back a pretty helpful error message so that our client when making an Ajax
request can display that to the user.
But if it's something else that goes on we're just going to return a bad request.
The status code for.
So how do we fill in the blanks here.
Well there's actually one more thing we need to do before we start creating a token we need to think
back to how these tokens are created.
So I'm going to hop over to JWT dot IO and if you remember adjacent what token is comprised of three
parts the header the payload and the signature.
The payload is where we're going to put information that can be decoded but the signature is what's
going to be very important to securely create these tokens and the signature actually consists of a
secret key or some kind of string.
This is a string that we're going to store on the server but that we don't want people to get access
to.
So in order to create variables that people don't have access to if they were to for some reason get
access to our server we need to create what's called an environment variable and in node our environment
variables exist on process that envy to create environment variables.
We have to load them from some file.
And what I'm going to do is make a file at the very root of my folder and I'll actually do this in the
terminal.
Keep it simple.
I'm going to make a file called Dot D-NV and inside of here I'm going to put some kind of secret key.
So what I'll do inside of my ini file go back to my text editor and inside of here I will simply add
a key of secret key and some kind of value.
No spaces here are very important.
Now ideally this would be some kind of random string.
I'm going to type a bunch of jibberish.
It really doesn't matter.
Now how do I take this ENVI variable and load it in my application.
Well there is a module that I need to install and that is called Dot envy.
We're going to use that EMV to load our environment variables.
So you might be wondering well where do I actually load those environment variables.
Do we do it inside of our office.
Yes.
Well we actually don't need to because what we're going to do is inside of our index j us not over here
the other index that s We're going to load all of our environment variables we're going to do that at
the very top using require.
Doc ENVI dot config.
And what that's going to do is load all of our environment variables.
So where are we actually going to be using these environment variables.
Well we're going to be using it inside of our off Jess so to create the token we're going to need some
kind of secret key and we get that unprocessed that you envy whatever we need our environment variable.
What do we need an environment variable.
We called it secret underscored key and you'll traditionally see those in capital letters.
So that's what I'm going to use to create that token.
So now we need to start filling in the blanks once we make this route.
We can start testing it really quickly which is nice.
So we'll get testing to the terminal very soon.
But we have to make this function first.
So how do we create a user.
Well we got to use our model we are going to make a new user and that is going to be the result of waiting
for a promise to resolve.
That promise is the creation of that user and we'll pass in that body.
This is going to be the data coming in from some Ajax request or in our case in each UDP requests from
the terminal.
We then get a bunch of properties on our user.
So what I'd like to do is instead of using user ID and user username I'm going to use some destructuring
and I'm going to restructure ID user name and profile image.
You are up from user.
And the reason why I want to do that is because when I make my token I don't want to pass in user id
user that user name and so on.
So I'm going to make a token and that is the result of the Jason web token module and the sine function.
And we can see right here what is the first thing.
It is the payload and the payload itself can be an object.
These are the values that will be passed to the tokens so when I decode them I'll see them it could
pass in a key ID and a value Id pass in a key of username and a value of username and if you've seen
that here 2015 section you might be saying hey wait you don't have to do that and you're totally right.
My keys and values are the same.
I can simply just do it like this.
So I want to pass in the Id the username and the profile image.
You are.
This means that if I decrypt the token I can get access to the ID username and profile image.
This is going to be very helpful for creating a current user or someone who's logged in.
So what's next.
Once we sign this object we need to pass in some kind of secret or private key and that is going to
be processed that envy that secret key that is going to be the secret key that we load from our environment
variable.
And once we finish that we can simply return a status of 200 which is everything is OK and we'll add
some grease on response and inside of here we will send back the I.D. the user name the profile image
you are l and the token we're going to send this information back so that we can see what it is and
it will be very helpful when we use some javascript to collect that data.
Now unfortunately the way that mongoose handles errors is not always the nicest.
So this is something that you would see from doing this kind of stuff a bit but there is a specific
code when a validation fails and that is 11000 has a number.
And this is simply if a validation fails.
It's a pretty ugly message.
So instead of just returning the default message we're going to say error message is sorry that username
or and or e-mail is taking.
So instead of the default mongoose error message which is really long and kind of messy and kind of
cryptic we want to make it much easier for our front end developers or our future self to get back a
nice piece of text that we can display.
And no matter what we're always going to return next and inside of here we'll pass in a status of 400
and a message of that error message.
We need to do one more thing before we start actually testing this and that is adding that logic to
our reps.
So we're going to do it inside of our routes file.
We are going to make an off that.
Yes.
And the good news is since we meet a handler earlier the code here is very minimal.
We're going to bring in Express and that is going to be requiring Express.
And then we're going to create a variable called router which is the result of the Express router.
Is this simply a nice way to abstract our routes into individual files so we don't put everything inside
that index.
Yes what we're then going to do is bring in a function called Sign up from require dot dot slash handlers
slash off.
Remember this right here is destructuring as well.
If I wanted to I could bring in the entire module and then attach to sign up if I want.
Or I can just restructure the sign up function.
This is one way of going about bringing in that specific function.
So what I'd like to do is say that if there is any kind of post request to slash sign up I want to run
my Sign-Up function and then I'm going to export out module that exports the router.
What's really nice about this is my router file is very clean.
If I want to include other functions right here no problem.
The functions themselves live in the handlers folder and the routes are all placed right over here.
This makes isolating those two quite easy makes it easier to grow or scale this application.
So what am i actually going to be using these user routes back in the index G-S where my routes are
located.
I'm going to be using these off routes so we will set a variable called Auth. routes to be require dot
slash routes slash off and what am I going to do with these routes.
I'm going to say if there is ever any request that starts with Slash API slash off go and use these
off routes.
So what I've done is I have prefixed all of my routes with Slash AP I-Slash off inside of the all throughout.
It's going to be slash seinen inside of here.
I'm also going to be using the slash Sign-Up function so I should have a route now for a post to slash
API slash off slash whatever I have in my off routes and that is coming from routes slash off.
That is a sign up.
So here's where we finally get to test this route.
So how can we do that we can open up postman.
We could try to use Perl and Kearl is a little bit too much to make sure you get your strings right
and pass and all these flags that you have to research and post-bin is a bit tricky as well.
There are lots of little things or gotchas here.
So I want to introduce you to my favorite tool that is used quite a bit called HGT pie.
Make sure that I spell that correctly and I'll show you what it looks like.
You can use it on Mac or Windows or Linux.
It works all over the place.
Go see what this looks like.
Here's a nice little example of some response that we get back.
And here you can see all the installation instructions for all different kinds of systems.
What I want to point your attention to is the simple usage right here.
All we have to specify is HDTV in the terminal we can do this anywhere.
A post the route and then some fields that we need to pass in.
So let's try to make a post request to our End Point to our API.
We'll do that using each TDP post localhost eighty eighty one.
You remember the route well if not it's OK.
Let's look back here inside of our index.
Yes that was slash API slash off.
And after that whatever we have over here slash sign up slash AB I-Slash or slash sign up.
So let's see what happens when we make this post request and it says can not read Property create undefined.
Well why might that be the case.
Well if we take a look inside of our user we're exporting out that model really well but inside of our
index j us we're not actually doing much with that model.
So you might have seen this mistake before.
But what I'm going to do is simply export out a property on whatever I send from index called user.
And it's going to be the result of my entire user model.
This is essentially the idea of bundling what you can do here is create lots of properties on module
that exports for all of your different models.
So you may be wondering where is that.
DB eating was coming from.
Well I accidentally forgot one step.
If we take a look at this db variable that I was using inside of.
Off.
This essentially is coming from index but you might have said well wait a minute we didn't export anything
from index and you would have been correct.
I just forgot this line right here to export that.
So if we take a look at hear what's going make that post request again.
And now it says user validation fail the password path as required username is required.
Email is required.
Well that's actually a good thing because I should have to put in a password and a user name and an
email.
But where is this error message coming from.
Well remember we're sending back this entire thing.
Thanks to our wonderful handler right here because we are sending back a status of 400 and a message
of error message.
But if you think about it where did this whole nice object format come from.
Think back that error handler we bolt a little while ago.
The key of error and the value of message inside of our error handler.
We were able to send back a property of message on an object called errors.
So no matter what kind of error we have we're always going to send back this specific kind of object.
This is going to be dealing with this on the front end quite quite simple.
So you can see here we need that username we need an e-mail and we need a password.
So how do we specify that.
Well with each DD PI It's real easy.
We can just simply specify those with an equal sign in the middle.
So I'll give this the user name of first user a password of secret and an email of the test at the first
test Ducktown.
And what I get back is a successful response I get back an object with an ID a token and a username
inside of this token there exists what came in the payload.
And we'll see that in a little bit.
What I want to do now is pause take a break.
We'll come back and chat about this more in the next screencast because there are a lot of moving parts
and I want to go review what we did from the beginning.